So now that we got push notifications working, now that we're able to push our notifications of Wieters
notifications tool here on Firebase, I think it would be a great conclusion to this app and to this
model if we could not just send messages through this tool here, which, by the way, is a great tool
for any marketing messages or any messages you as the app owner want to push out to your users.
So does this not just a testing tool?
This is really a tool you can use to send messages to your users.
But sometimes you also want messages that are triggered by users.
For example, if a user sends a chat message here, maybe you want to let all average users know about
it.
So that is another use case you could have.
And therefore that is something we want to look into here as well.
And I think that would be a great conclusion to this model that we make sure if a user sends a chat
message here, we push that message to all other devices that also have this app installed.
Now, as a side note, if this is something you want is on a different page, you might not want to
spam all your users just because one user posted something in a public chat.
But here to demonstrate how this works and to see this in action, I think it's a great example.
So therefore, we need some way of triggering such a message, which we previously wrote manually with
this tool automatically.
When a new entry is written to our database, when a new chat message arrives and Firebase has a solution
for that, we can use Firebase Cloud functions to execute code when a certain event occurs.
Now, of course, that's also not the only way of sending automated messages.
You can write your own server side code on your own server and interact with the firebase cloud messaging
service to trigger an automated message.
And as always, the official firebase cloud messaging docs got you covered here.
Under a server environments, you can learn all about automated messages, but it's particularly easy
if you do use the entire firebase ecosystem and if you do use firebase cloud functions.
So to get started on the functions part of Firebase, we can just click on Get Started and we learned
that we need to install this tool locally on our machine to get started writing such functions.
So here, the Flutter app, I'll switch to the regular terminal, which is integrated into my idee.
Here you can also use your normal system terminal or command prompt and in there run npm install dashi
firebase tools.
Now, as a side note on Linux and Mac, you might need to add Souto in front of this to have the right
permissions.
This will installed as Firebase Tools package globally on your system and we need this tool to then
later write to cloud function code to create those automated notifications.
So this finished and so we can click on continue and now we should run Firebase in it.
And then once we did write our function code firebase deploy, so I'll write Firebase init here in this
project and that's important.
Do this inside of the project to which the functions should belong to keep all your code organized.
And now this will basically open up a wizard which asks you some questions and it asks you which features
of the firebase ecosystem you want to use here, or to be precise, which features you want to manage
with that Firebase Seelie tool, which we're using here.
Seelie stands for Command Line Interface.
Now, we're interested in functions here, so I will scroll down to that and hit space to select it
and we can leave the rest untouched.
Yes, we are using Firestorm and yes, we are using storage, but we already got this integrated here.
We don't want to manage anything there with the Firebase Seelie.
We're managing this through the web interface instead.
Now, functions currently can't be managed through this, so we do select those and hit enter thereafter.
Now you have to let the firebase tool know to which project you want to connect this local functions
project you're going to create.
So to which firebase web project you want to connect it.
And here I will select you as an existing project.
And then select my flutter chat app here.
Now is the last step I'm asked which programming language I want to use for those functions and I will
use JavaScript.
Now, as a side note, you don't need to be a JavaScript expert to follow along here.
Of course, if you want to build a real app with a more complex silverside logic, you need to learn
JavaScript or some other language which you can use there.
But to follow along and discourse, you don't need any JavaScript knowledge.
So let's just hit enter here and let's choose yes.
Here for LINTANG so that we avoid any bugs.
And this will now add a functions folder here.
Now in that functions folder you've got a couple of files and they all don't matter except for this
index just file.
That's the important one for us because that is where we're going to write our function.
Now, you also see that the wizard isn't entirely done, it asks you whether it dependancy should be
installed and you should press Y for a yes here and hit enter.
And this will install all dependencies.
This functions, setup needs.
So now I'm not talking about the flutter app.
I'm talking about these cloud functions.
And we will later deploy these cloud functions, Tudor's firebase hosting environment.
So they will be running on a server away from our local machine.
We just developed them locally.
Now this created this node modules folder, which basically contains all the dependencies we have here.
And we have this packaged adjacent file which lists all the dependencies this Project Dysfunctions Project
has.
And there we got two dependencies, firebase admin and firebase functions.
And we will indeed only need these two packages to write our automated notifications sending code.
So let's get started with that next.